# ibio-851 notes for 9-5-2017

## R bootcamp!

A week long.

Two program components: active lecture and labs/homework.
Turn in labs/homework on D2L.

### Why use R?

We need tools for data analysis.
We have to use the right tool for the size of the job.

Why not excel?
* intuitive
* data manipulation is easy
* can see what's happening

but...
* graphics are poor
* limited statistical packages
* inflexible
* some things it just can't do
    * handle big data (goes so, so slow and bonks)
    * statistics...
    * very limited set of tools for data manipulation and plotting

Case closed... excel sucks!

(but it's still good for data entry)

Everyone knows (and loves) R!
* data manipulation
* easier automation
* faster computation
* versatile data type
* project organization
* larger data students
* start-to-end reproducibility... all in a single R script!
    1. read in data
    2. wrangle data into right format
    3. explore patterns in data
    4. apply statistical tests, fit models
    5. produce summary stats and tables
    6. create final figures
* so... easy to revise and rerun
    * rule of thumb expect to redo all analyses 15 times while getting ready to publish
* graphics (publication-quality graphics)
* all common statistical techniques available as a free package
* completely open source
* R skills are marketable!

R usage and capabilities are increasing exponentially.

### What is R?

R is a computer language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.

R is script-based (text computer code) and not GUI-based (point and click with menus).

It allows anyone on any operating system to reproduce your work from data to finished analysis.

It is a flexible and large collection of graphing facilities.

> Many features of the system will be unfamiliar and puzzling at first, but this puzzlement will soon disappear. - The R Manual

### tidbits from R bootcamp

`?function`
* look up a function documentation
* keep an eye out for see also... discover related functions (often, the ones you should actually be using)

R functions are part of packages.

What did we learn?
* how to open R, write and save a simple script
* assigning variables
* accessing help via `library` or `?`

RStudio
* kind of a GUI for R
* organizes your R work into a single easy-to-view window
* other features (i.e. R markdown!)
* some nice point-and-click cheats

Workspace image...
* saving data and variables in your R environment
* generally not recommended (bad habit)
* exception: working with an enormous dataset

### your futuRe
* data in and out
* data manipulation/wrangling
* plotting/data visualization
* programming fundamentals
* reports with R markdown

### finding help
Check the help files.

Google it.
"r" generally returns R stuff.
"r cran" can sometimes be better.

R project website and R seek are great sites.

Ask other graduates students in your lab or your class.

### homework
`Class2_Homework.html` in homework folder on D2L.
Turn it in on D2L.
