# ibio-851 notes for 9-7-2017

Round takes two arguments:
* `x` the number you want to round
* `digits` the number of decimal places you want to round to

Round usage:

`round(x, usage = 0)`

So, `x` required and `usage` is optional. You can specify which argument is which by using `=`.

## objects in R

The type of data you feed to arguments also matters!

> R can be a very unforgiving languate.
> Obtuse error messages and a variety of differing yet siilar data structures leads to a frustrating learning curve.
> -Bioinformatics Zen Blog

When you put your data in R, it is stored and accessed as an object.
There are lots of related data structures/objects.

What is an object name?
Essentially, object names are human-convenient "pointers" that point to a memory location where data is stored.

List all objects with `ls()`.
Remove an object `name` with `rm(name)`.
Remove all objects with `rm(ls())`.

## Data types in R
Objects can include diferent types of data.
Common data types include:
* numeric
* character
* factor
* etc.

Putting data together into different data structures
* vector
    * 1D ordered collection of single data type
    * "singleton" variables are just length 1 vectors
    * `a <- c(1,2,5.3,6,12)`
    * use `1:10` or `seq` function to generate nice numeric vectors
    * use `rep` to create vectors with repeated content
    * vector operations work element-wise
        * `x <- 1:3`
        * `x + 1` yields `[1] 2 3 4`
    * we can use boolean comparison operators to create logical vectors
        * `x <-3`
        * `x == 3` yields `[1] TRUE`
        * `x < -1` yields `[1] FALSE`
        (don't confuse with `x <- 1`)
        * `x <- 1:5`
        * `x == 3` yields `[1] FALSE FALSE TRUE FALSE FALSE`
* matrix
    * multiple columns and rows of data
    * single data type
    * ordered `row`, `column`
    * use `dim` to extract dimensions
* array
    * like matrices, but 3D
* data frame
  * two dimensional
  * multiple data types
  * example: corercing vectors into a data frame
      * `x <- c(TRUE, FALSE, TRUE)`
      * `y <- c("a", "b", "c")`
      * `z <- c(4, 5, 7)`
      * `my_dataframe <- data.frame(x, y, z)`
* list
  * define using `list()`
  * `my_list <- list(my_dataframe, my_logical, my_character)`

Data structures are a super common source of errors :(.
You can coerce data structures using `as.desired`.
You might also have to wrantle it into the right shape.

## Data Wrangling
*Indexing*: subsetting out values from a data structure.
To pull out the nth element of a vector, use `[n]`.
```
test <- c("a", "b", "c")`
test[2] # b
test[4] # error
test[-2] # everything but b
test[1:2] # a and b
```
To pull out an element of a matrix or dtataframe, specify the row index, column index, or both
```
my_matrix[1, 2] # extract row 1 column 2
my_matrix[1, ] # extract the first row
my_matrix[1,1:2] # extract columns 1,2 of first row
```
To pull an element out of a list use `[[]]`.
For example, `my_list[[1]]` pulls out first element of `my_list`.

Bind vectors into a matrix using column bind (`cbind`) or row bind (`rbind`).

Transpose a matrix with `t()`.

You can rename and access names of rows and columns.
For example, to access the `scary` column of your dataframe use `my_dataframe$scary`.

Elements may also be extracted logically.
```
my_dataframe$height > 6 # logical vector
my_dataframe[my_dataframe$height > 6,]
```

Use `dplyr` and associated packages for advanced data wrangling.
They are part of "the tidyverse," an opinionated collection of R packages that share an underlying philosophy.

## Loading data into R

1. set your working directory
    * where R will look for and save your files
    * at the beginning of your script, set your working directory
    * use `getwd()` to set your working directory
2. save data in the right format
    * remove spaces, symbols, blank cells
    * save as a text file
3. load data into R
    * use `read`
