# Matthew Moreno progress report 7-31-2017
## work from last week
* rewrote plastic grn software to save data to file in a human-readable format, skeletonize genotypes for analysis, perform an ecological segment to assess the dominant genotype
* recollected plastic grn data (60 reps each of control, direct plasticity, indirect plasticity, and combined plasticity treatments)

## work for next week
* finish poster for BEACON congress
* BEACON congress
* analyze new data to assess if results replicate
* look at outcomes of combining pairs silent mutations and genotype skeletons to assess mechanism through which evolvability effects manifest
* blog posts for DEVOLAB website

## obstacles

I ran into technical obstacles parallelizing my python code.
Python packages for parallel use pickling under the hood to distribute tasks over many compute nodes.
Making my code pickle-safe was difficult.

I am also concerned the file size of data I'm working with.
Because I needed to keep track of genomes from a large sample of mutant offspring of the dominant genotype at the end of each evolutionary run, each replicate has about 250 MB of data.
I think I will use the development cluster to perform my analysis because my local computer might not have adequate memory.

## agenda
* where/how to store data
    * to eventually archive
    * version control?
    * eventually make publicly available?
* tips for elevator description of projects
    * target audiences: scientists in your field vs other scientists vs general public
* getting involved in outreach
    * opportunities through BEACON, MSU, otherwise?
    * who to talk to/where to look, when
